CS7NS6 Distributed Systems 2025-2026

Exercise 2

Implementing a Globally-accessible Distributed Traffic Service

Imagine a world in which all road-vehicle drivers are required to
prebook every journey that they wish to make. No driver is allowed to
start a journey without receiving a notification that the requested
journey is acceptable.

The exercise is to design, implement and demonstrate a system whose
primary purpose is to allow drivers to book/cancel journeys and that is
intended to be globally-accessible.

Note that the focus is not on how the system decides whether a journey
is acceptable, or how enforcement is handled. However, your system
should support both considerations.

Your design should focus on performance, scalability, availability and
reliability, considering that the system may need to support millions of
users globally.

There is no single correct design. You should: - Define a reasonable set
of system requirements - Design the system to meet those requirements -
Avoid over-engineering (higher dependability increases cost)

System requirements:

-   The system must consist of N distributed services (N ≥ number of
    group members)
-   Each member must be responsible for at least one service
-   Services should be loosely coupled

Assessment is based on: - Quality of requirements - Appropriateness of
design decisions

Design considerations:

Consider using (but not necessarily all): - Transactions - Process
replication - Checkpointing / message logging - Caching - Load
balancing - Replication - Partitioning

You must also define: - Isolation levels - Replication degree -
Consistency model - Failure model assumptions - Fault tolerance approach

Usage and failure considerations:

-   Are users geographically distributed?
-   Is workload read-heavy or write-heavy?
-   Is data shared across users?
-   Are some data items accessed more frequently?
-   Are failures frequent or rare?

Implementation:

-   You may use any programming language, middleware, or methodology
    agreed by the group
-   You must build a deployment framework that allows testing of failure
    scenarios

Interim deadline:

Submit a short report outlining: - Technical architecture - Technologies
to be used

Deadline: Friday, 6th March 2026 Report must be signed by all group
members

Final deadline:

-   Present and demonstrate the system (date to be announced)
-   Submit final report by 5:00 PM (date to be announced)
-   Further details will be provided on Blackboard
